hi everyone this is Mark Stoddard from
lava cable here in a wasa Oklahoma today
I'm going to demonstrate how quick and
easy it is to put together our lava
solder free mini plug and mini ELC cable
our new mini plug has upgrades that
include a smaller needle that make it
easier than ever before to get a first
time working cable I'm going to
demonstrate this making a short right
angle to straight cable the first step
is to strip about a half inch of outer
jacket using the stripping tool provided
on the second setting the second step is
to take the sleeve and slide it on step
three is bending the braid over the end
of the sleeve trimming the braid and the
inner black layer and the cable
step four is inspecting to ensure that
the cable is centered and that none of
the braids or the inner black layer is
shorting against the center conductor if
the braid shorts to the center conductor
the cable will not work at all and if
the inner black layer shorts to the
center conductor the cable will barely
pass signal and will cause your tone to
sound very very dark the needle inside
the plug is centered so as long as the
cable is centered within the sleeve the
needle is going to make contact once no
shorts are verified step 5 is pushing
the stem on the sleeve
step six is bending the cable over for a
right angle plug or sliding the cap on
for the straight plug and then twisting
the stem into the cap
maintaining downward pressure on the
cable so that the cable doesn't back out
inside of the stem and cause a short
step 7 is to test the first end before
we put the second in on we can do this
using a cotton ooha tea tester that you
can get at RadioShack or anywhere it
doesn't have to be fancy just a real
simple continuity tester and then we're
going to use that we're just going to
put that on there hold it on with our
hand and touch we have no light so we
know we don't have a short we can put
the second end on and that is step eight
is to put the second end on and in this
case it is a straight plug so we're
going to go ahead and we're going to
slide our cap on and repeat the steps
that we just did
with a straight plug it is important
that the braids be bent over the end of
the sleeve so this forms a hook
preventing the cable from pulling out
and now we have a completed cable part
of step 8 is doing a final test on the
cable we can do this using a cable
tester a continuity tester a multimeter
or our guitar amp in this case we're
going to use a cable tester we're going
to plug it in and check it to make sure
the cable is good and we have a good
working cable in a very short amount of
time thanks for watching everyone this
is Mark Stoddard from lava cable here in
a Wausau Oklahoma we hope you find the
video instructive and that it helps you
put together our revolutionary lava mini
plugs and mini ultramafic or mini ELC
Cable easier you have a great rockin day